Exercise if-else statement. Exercise
objective: Create a program to implement
the use of the if-else structure at the
end we should observe the following
create a new project called if-else
example so click on file new project
select java, java application and click
on next. The project name is IfElseExample
and the project location is lesson04 and click on finish
so the project has the desired structure
we create a new class called IfElseTest.java so the class name is
IfElseTest the package name is test
and click on finish. We modify the code
of the class IfElseTest the package is
test we define the class IfElseTest
and we add the main method. We define a
variable called x equals to 30 of type int
and we use the if statement. If x is less
than 20 we print x is less than 20 and
we add the structure else, it means if
not the application will print X greater
than 20 because we are using only one
sentence inside the if and else
statement we can omit the use of curly
braces we close the main method and we
close the class. We execute the project so
right click on the IfElseTest class and
click on run file and the result is as
follows so the result is x greater than
20 because the expression of the
if
statement was false so the else
structure was executed that's why we can
see the result X greater than 20.
Exercise Conclusion: With this exercise
we have put into practice the handling of
the else if statement, we will do some
more exercises regarding the topic of
control sentences